Update interoperability page on docs.md (#1046)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/concepts/interoperability.md

relatedContent: >
  apps/features/integrations
---

## Introduction 

Interoperability refers to the ability of different health information systems and applications to communicate with each other and exchange data seamlessly. With interoperability, patient information can be seen, exchanged, and used across different platforms. The information/data exchanged has to be understood across the different software for these systems to become interoperable. This is different from _integration_ which requires custom development to connect two specific systems together.

Interoperability is the best practice for health systems because it allows information from one system to be shared with one or more other systems with no additional development. Interoperability allows technical teams to scale in an efficient and repeatable manner due to the already predefined standards. 

## CHT Interoperability

The native CHT database structure does not map directly to a [Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR)](http://www.hl7.org/fhir/) message format. To be compatible, we use a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized JSON format so the other systems can read it.

> {{< figure src="flow.png" link="flow.png" >}}

Reviewer: Let's use the new mermaid chart Josh added!

I'd make this a suggestion, but GH isn't playing nice with me having a code block inside my suggestion block :shrug: 

Here's the code to uses , but the first line needs to wrapped in open ` ```mermaid` and close  ` ``` ` :

```
graph LR
cht[CHT]
mediator_a([Mediator])
mediator_b([Mediator])
openhim[OpenHIM]
cht -- Outbound push\nfa:fa-arrow-right --- mediator_a
cht -- API request\nfa:fa-arrow-left --- mediator_b
mediator_a -- Request\nfa:fa-arrow-right --- openhim
mediator_b -- Channel\nfa:fa-arrow-left --- openhim
```

Author: Thanks, adding the mermaid.

linkTitle: "Interoperability"
weight: 8
description: >

>   Two way data synchronization between the CHT Core and other health systems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Exchanging information between the CHT Core and other health systems 
```

I think information exchange is more accurate than synchronization in the context of interoperability.

keywords: interoperability integrations fhir icd openhie openhim
relatedContent: >
  apps/features/integrations
---

## Introduction 

> Interoperability refers to the ability of different systems and applications to communicate with each other and exchange data seamlessly.With interoperability, patient information can be seen, exchanged, and used across different platforms that may be disparate or relatively similar. The information/data exchanged has to be understood across the different software for these systems to become interoperable. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interoperability refers to the ability of different health information systems and applications to communicate with each other and exchange data seamlessly. With interoperability, patient information can be seen, exchanged, and used across different platforms. The information/data exchanged has to be understood across the different software for these systems to become interoperable. This is different from _integration_ which requires custom development to connect two specific systems together.
```

Putting back some text from the previous version on integration, as it seems important to mention here.

- [FHIR](http://www.hl7.org/fhir): FHIR is a standard for exchanging healthcare data electronically. FHIR provides a modern, web-based approach to exchanging healthcare data and is rapidly becoming the preferred standard for healthcare interoperability.

# Loss to Follow Up Workflow

This workflow describes a use case where a health facility/requesting system generates a list of patients who have missed appointments for follow-up through on the CHT. A Community Health Worker (CHW) physically visits the patients who missed the appointments and encourages them to visit the health facility. The follow-up process can also be conducted over phone or text messaging.
In the context of the proof of concept, the intended users of the interoperable systems are Community Health Workers (CHWs) on the CHT side and Healthcare Givers on the requesting system side. System administrators can access the mediator on the administration console.

> The Interoperating Systems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Interoperating Systems:
```

- [CHT](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/): Community Health Toolkit.
- [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/): Mediator (middleware).

> - Requesting System: [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) was used for testing purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Requesting System: For testing purposes, we used HTTP Requests.
```

I don't think it is necessary to mention Postman. Any tool for HTTP requests can work in this scenario.

> OpenHIM was chosen as the main component of the interoperability layer and custom mediators were built to deal with the different workflows as it provides a central point of control for managing data exchange and security.

Reviewer 2: You mention different workflows, but we only implement one for the TWG, right?

Author: Yes, we only implement the LTFU.

In the context of the proof of concept, the intended users of the interoperable systems are Community Health Workers (CHWs) on the CHT side and Healthcare Givers on the requesting system side. System administrators can access the mediator on the administration console.

The Interoperating Systems
- [CHT](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/): Community Health Toolkit.
- [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/): Mediator (middleware).
- Requesting System: [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) was used for testing purposes.

OpenHIM was chosen as the main component of the interoperability layer and custom mediators were built to deal with the different workflows as it provides a central point of control for managing data exchange and security.

{{< figure workflows="LTFU Sequence Diagram.png" link="LTFU Sequence Diagram.png" >}}

Conversely to bring data in to the CHT, OpenHIM should be configured to route the updated resource to a Mediator, which then calls the relevant CHT APIs to update the document in the CHT database. This will then be replicated to users' devices as per usual.

> A reference application for this pattern is available in the [CHIS Interoperability repository](https://github.com/medic/chis-interoperability).

Reviewer 2: Can we keep this line and add the relevant GitHub repo? You mentioned it below, but it's worth explaining that we implemented the flow in that repo.

Author: Alright, adding the cht-instrop repo.

> -  [CHT-interoperability repository](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability): A reference application for the LTFU interoperability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [cht-interoperability repository](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability): A reference application for the LTFU workflow
```

> - [CHT LTFU Test Instance](https://interop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org/medic/login?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Finterop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org%2F)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [CHT Instance with LTFU configuration](https://interop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org/medic/login?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Finterop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org%2F)
```

> - [OpenHIM LTFU Test Instance Admin Login](https://interoperability.dev.medicmobile.org/#!/login) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [OpenHIM Admin Console](https://interoperability.dev.medicmobile.org/#!/login) 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add a link to the mediator instance?

Author: Done

linkTitle: "Interoperability"
weight: 8
description: >
  This is data exchange between the CHT Core and any other other system. 
keywords: interoperability integrations fhir icd openhie openhim
relatedContent: >
  apps/features/integrations
---

# Introduction 

Interoperability refers to the ability of different systems and applications to communicate with each other and exchange data seamlessly.With interoperability, patient information can be seen, exchanged, and used across different platforms that may be disparate or relatively similar. The information/data exchanged has to be understood across the different software for these systems to become interoperable. 

> # CHT Interoperability

Author: I wanted uniformity with the blog posts we have put out there but on further review, we can use the original text.

The structure of documents in the CHT database reflect the configuration of the system, and therefore do not map directly to a FHIR message format. As the CHT is not natively FHIR standardized, we use a middleware to convert the CHT data structure into a standardized form so the other systems can read it.

> {{< figure src="flow.png" link="flow.png" >}}

Author: This is accurate based on the arrow symbol direction and text preceding the figure. However, we have one mediator.

> Interoperability is the best practice for health systems because it allows information from one system to be shared with one or more other systems with no additional development. Interoperability allows technical teams to scale in an efficient and repeatable manner due to the already predefined standards. 

Author: Done

In the context of the proof of concept, the intended users of the interoperable systems are Community Health Workers (CHWs) on the CHT side and Healthcare Givers on the requesting system side. System administrators can access the mediator on the administration console.

The Interoperating Systems
- [CHT](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/): Community Health Toolkit.
- [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/): Mediator (middleware).
- Requesting System: [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) was used for testing purposes.

OpenHIM was chosen as the main component of the interoperability layer and custom mediators were built to deal with the different workflows as it provides a central point of control for managing data exchange and security.

{{< figure workflows="LTFU Sequence Diagram.png" link="LTFU Sequence Diagram.png" >}}

Conversely to bring data in to the CHT, OpenHIM should be configured to route the updated resource to a Mediator, which then calls the relevant CHT APIs to update the document in the CHT database. This will then be replicated to users' devices as per usual.

# Important Links

> - A reference to an application repository can be accessed in the [CHT-interoperability repository](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability).
> - This [README](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability#readme) contains documentation on the CHT-interoperability project.
> - Test instances:
> - - [CHT](https://interop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org/medic/login?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Finterop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org%2F)
> - - [OpenHIM Admin Console](https://interoperability.dev.medicmobile.org/#!/login) 

Reviewer: There's some repetition here, we can simplify (but admittedly add a bit of repetitiveness :shrug: )

```suggestion
-  [CHT-interoperability repository](https://github.com/medic/cht-interoperability): A reference application for the LTFU interoperability
- [CHT LTFU Test Instance](https://interop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org/medic/login?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Finterop-cht-test.dev.medicmobile.org%2F)
- [OpenHIM LTFU Test Instance Admin Login](https://interoperability.dev.medicmobile.org/#!/login) 
```
